Welcome to our third and
final video outlining a case setting on
how one company applied
a multi-dimensional analytic approach
to decide on a strategy for
acquiring new customers.
In our last video, we walked through most
of the steps in the analysis itself.
Again, here's the high level process
the team used to execute the analysis.
By way of a quick review, a customer
segmentation effort fed into a geographic
segmentation effort, which jointly guided
internal and external analysis streams.
The internal stream provided
the information about the current customer
base and
the relative value of different segments.
The external analysis provided
information about the market size,
market penetration and overall opportunity
for acquiring customers no segments.
In this video, we're going to pick up
where we left off and see how the internal
and external analysis were brought
together, summarized and presented.
The first step in bringing the analysis
together was to calculate forward looking
metrics for each of the seven potential
strategies the team was asked to examine.
As a reminder,
these strategies were, maximize
the total size of the customer base.
Maximize total revenue.
Maximize revenue per customer.
Maximize customer profitability.
Focus on teens, tweens and young adults.
Focus on minority groups.
And focus on families.
A financial model was built
in Excel to calculate
the annualized acquisition volume and
revenue opportunity
on each option based on the values
obtained from the internal analysis and
the opportunities obtained
from the external analysis.
Specifically, projections were
provided for each strategy and
acquisition volume, total revenue,
revenue per customer and
relative desirability which if you recall
was was mobilized customer value measure.
At this point the analysis hit a snag.
When the team looked at the matrix for the
last three groups base strategy it become
immediately obvious that the volume in
total revenue opportunities for any of
these strategies alone would be far to low
to be practical options for the company.
Rather than just blindly
adhere to the plan and
complete the assessment as directed,
the team paused and
re-engaged leadership to outline the
initial findings and get further guidance.
A short focus deck was prepared
to discuss the issue and
the working materials
the team had developed so
far were available in appendix in case
there are any more detailed questions.
The outcome of the meeting was some
consolidation on the last three
strategies.
The youth and minority strategies would be
combined into one growth segment strategy.
And families would be included in a new
strategy that focused on segments with
high switcher and intender opportunities
as informed by the external analysis.
With this new direction the team refined
some of the opportunity values and
modified the financial model to provide
key metrics for these new strategies.
At this point the team had all the hard
quantitative information it needed to
characterize each key strategy.
In many analytical projects,
this might be the point which results or
summarize the presented.
However, given the strategic
nature of this project,
it was important to supplement
the quantitative outputs with more
qualitative information around the
implications of selecting each strategy.
The team consulted with the number of
subject matter experts in the company to
assess the impact of each strategy
on a variety there is including.
Products and services, equipment,
offering and pricing, advertising,
distribution, technical infrastructure and
customer services.
Unique issues were captured as well and
each strategy was placed in context
by identifying competitors that
might have similar strategy.
We walk into a lot of detail
around how this is done but
it is important to recognize that most
data analytics projects are really part of
some larger decision analysis process.
As a data analyst, you may not have a
direct hand in other parts of that process
but it is important to understand how
your piece fits into a larger content.
With both quantitative and quality of
aspects of the assessment in hand,
the team is ready to summarize
the results of the analysis.
The team elected to use a summary and
visualization technique
commonly referred to as the Baseball Card
Approach to show the different strategies
in a way they could easily be compared to
each other across a variety of dimension.
For those not familiar with baseball
cards, they're small, wallet-size,
cardboard summaries of baseball players.
They usually have a picture of the player,
the team they play for,
key characteristics of the player,
and performance statistics.
They follow a standard format, and
the nice thing about the cards is
they can be arranged next to
each other and easily compared.
Here's one example of
an actual Baseball Card.
The Baseball Card approach involves
developing the standard slide format that
shows key characteristics and measures
around each option, usually in one or
two slides at the most.
These slides can easily be arranged
next to each other on a table or
large display so that options can be
compared with same level of detail.
The baseball card slides themselves
are usually supplemented with the summary
slide or two, which compares options at
a high level, as well as an executive
summary slide, which provides
the punchline or recommendation.
Earlier in the course, we talked about
there being an art to putting enough
detail on slides to allow them
to stand on their own, but
not overloading slides
with too much information.
The baseball card approach really
pushes the limit of this idea.
We need to have a lot of
information on each slide but
we need people to understand it easily.
To get around this problem,
the team actually incorporated some
instructions in their deck for
how to read each set of cards.
Here's how they did it.
This will also give you a sense for what
the actual baseball cards look like for
each strategic option.
[BLANK AUDIO] Let's look at
the structure of the cards at a high
level, starting with the first card,
which shows most of the factors from
the core quantitative analysis.
The upper left area uses a graphical
map to show which age groups and
minorities and
non minority groups are covered.
It also provides key summary matrix.
The lower left are shows
a breakdown of the top
customers segment that will
be targeted by that strategy.
Note the use of numeric textual and
graphical information
all in the same table to officially
communicate a lot of information.
The upper-right area gives a sense of
concentration by showing which segment
groups are targeted as we move
more deeply into a population.
The fewer and taller the bars,
the more focused the strategy.
The lower right area shows how those same
segment groups are targeted geographically
with a similar interpretation.
The second card focuses more
on the qualitative factors.
The upper left provides
a textual summary of the option.
The lower left shows the key
competitors that were likely to target
the same customers.
And the right-hand side provides
an assessment of how well the strategy
aligns with a variety of internal
capabilities and other factors.
Round ideograms called Harvey balls
are used to indicate the degree
of alignment in each area.
This is a great example of adding a degree
of quantification to qualitative data
to help the audience quickly
identify the most important factors.
Together each pair of slides provided
a fairly detailed look in to how each
strategy would be structured, and
because they all follow the same format,
they were pretty easy to compare.
However, the team new they needed to
provide higher level summary as well.
So, they constructed two slides
that showed all options on a few
key dimensions.
Here is the first slide.
The left side illustrates the size of
the opportunity in terms of customers and
total revenue for each strategy.
Which tend to move together.
The right side shows a tradeoff
between profitability and
revenue per customer across strategies.
A few bullet points are provided on each
slide to convey the most critical points.
Here is the second slide,
this slide uses Harvey Balls to summarize
the quantitative and qualitative factors
in a similar way across all strategies.
A few things to take note of here.
See how the color shading is
used to group the factors and
map them to the focus of each strategy?
Also, putting the balanced strategy at
the far right was a strategic choice.
The team was advocating for
the strategies of the prefered option,
putting it at the end, allowed
the audience to see the shortcomings in
the other strategies first, as they
naturally moved from left to right.
A small visual clue in
the form of a plus sign
was a subtle nod to the balance
strategy as the favorite.
In fact, the selection of the term
balanced itself to describe the strategy
was meant to appeal to the conservative
nature of the leadership team and
was another subtle clue to team used to
draw attention to the preferred option.
Okay, before we wrap up let's take just
a moment and talk about the overall
communication process and the material the
team developed to support that process.
Through the course of the project the team
developed a variety of summary materials
that described the analytic process and
the detailed findings of the analysis.
These were assembled into one large
deck with about a 100 slides.
A summary deck of about 20 slides
which included the base ball cards was
also constructed.
Finally, a short six slides executive
summary was added to facilitate high level
briefings.
If you remember the pyramid principle
we discussed earlier in the course,
that's basically what was
applied in this case.
The series of meanings that follow
the analysis all use some combinations of
these materials, depending on
the audience and the time available.
In all cases the full side of
the materials was available incase
they are any detailed questions.
So that's it, hope you enjoyed the case.
Wait, you actually want to know
what happened, fair enough.
Thanks to the backwards thinking process.
The clear but flexible analysis plan and
the purpose for visualization and
communication of the findings
the leadership team did feel comfortable
in moving forward the balanced option
that was proposed by the team.
The resulting actions and outcomes were
widely considered to be a success.
Now we've reached the end
of our case study.
Hopefully we've delivered on the objective
that we said out in the first video.
Namely showing you how we apply
the idea of thinking backwards.
Providing an example of how different
types of analytics can be used in
one larger effort.
And how quantitative and
qualitative considerations contribute
to business decision making.
And finally, illustrating a couple of
way in which we can display data and
create presentation material.
I sincerely hope you enjoyed this
case study and this course, and for
those of you taking multiple course,
the specializations as a whole.
If we've been successful we've
helped you lay a foundation for
understanding how data analytics
are actually done in the real word.
Now it's up to you to continue to
build your knowledge, and experience.
Best of luck as you start
your own analytic journey.